Q.1) How to check if git is available on your system?
To check if Git is available on your system, you can use the command-line interface (CLI) of your operating system:
-> git --version

Q.2) How to initialize a new git repository?

To initialize a new Git repository in a directory. 
follow these steps:-
1.Open a Terminal or Command Prompt:
Open a terminal or command prompt on your system.
2.Navigate to the Directory:
Use the "cd" command to navigate to the directory where you want to create your new Git repository.
3.Initialize Git Repository:
nce you're in the desired directory, use the following command to initialize a new Git repository: ex- git init
4.Optional: Add Files:
If you have files that you want to add to the repository, you can do so using the git add command followed by the filenames. ex- git add file1 file2, and so on.
5.Commit Changes:
After adding files, you'll need to commit them to the repository. Use the git commit command along with a message describing the changes. ex- git commit -m "first time adding this file".

Q.3) How to tell git about your name and email?
To tell Git about your name and email, you can use the git config command.
ex- git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    git config --global user.email "your_email@example.com"

Q.4) How to add a file to the staging area?
To add a file to the staging area in Git, you can use the git add command followed by the name of the file you want to add.
Here's:
git add filename
git add file1.txt file2.txt

Q.4)How to remove a file from the staging area?
To remove a file from the staging area in Git, you can use the git reset command. Here's steps:
1.Open a Terminal or Command Prompt:
Open a terminal or command prompt on your system.
2.Navigate to Your Git Repository:
Use the cd command to navigate to the directory containing your Git repository.
3.Remove File from Staging Area:
Use the following command to remove a file from the staging area: git reset filename.

Q.5) How to make a commit?
To make a commit in Git, here's these steps:
1.Stage Your Changes:
Before committing, you need to stage the changes you want to include in the commit. You can use the git add command to stage specific files or changes. ex- git add .
2. Commit your Changes:
Once you've staged your changes, you can commit them to the repository. Use the git commit command followed by a commit message. ex-
git commit -m "Commited"
